---
title: Carpinus betulus #1
---

# Carpinus betulus #1

## 2005-01 Acquisition

![2005-01](/bonsai/2005-01-03-carpinus-betulus-1.jpg)

In the beginning of 2005, I acquired this young European hornbeam in a nursery.

A few weeks later, the trunk was cut after the third branch, while the second
one was reduced, and the first branch was removed. In retrospect this was a
mistake, the trunk should have been cut between the first and the second
branch, and the first branch would have provided a natural continuity of the
trunk with good tapering.

## 2005-03 Transplantation into the ground

![2005-03](/bonsai/2005-03-28-carpinus-betulus-1.jpg)

In spring the tree was then transplanted into the ground over a tile with some
pozzolan added to the soil.

## 2006-05 Second year in the ground

![2006-05](/bonsai/2006-05-28-carpinus-betulus-1.jpg)

The third branch got really big after a year of growth but it started
horizontally and gave the trunk a bad shape so the trunk was reduced again at
the level of the second branch.

## 2010-02 Transplantation into a container

![2010-02](/bonsai/2010-02-21-carpinus-betulus-1.jpg)

Unfortunately I can't find pictures of the previous years but the tree was left
to grow freely with just one cut at about twice the height of the previous cut.

In that time the diameter of the trunk had arrived at what I wanted so I
transplanted it into a container.

In retrospect I can identify two mistakes here: first the second cut should
have been worked on to look natural, 10 years later it's still basically the
same. And then it'd have been better to select a branch from the top to provide
the continuity of the trunk instead of this one at the bottom. But I think
there were no other available candidates at that time.

## 2011-10 Getting left behind

![2011-10](/bonsai/2011-10-02-carpinus-betulus-1.jpg)

In the previous years I was studying at a university just a couple of hours
away from the garden of my parents where my trees were growing but I moved to
the capital of the country for work in 2011 and moved again to the other side
of the world a few years later.

## 2017-03 Managing to stay alive

![2017-03](/bonsai/2017-03-31-carpinus-betulus-1.jpg)

During that time this tree got a bit forgotten in the garden, with an
occasional hedge cut when it got noticed for getting too big. It was receiving
some water but no feeding.

## 2020-07 Moving to a new location

![2020-07](/bonsai/2020-07-17-carpinus-betulus-1.jpg)

After a couple of year I came back to this side of the world, then after
another few years my life stabilized enough to move the trees that managed to
stay alive during that period into my own garden.

This one managed pretty well, especially this year after an emergency
transplantation into a new container. It will now receive regular feeding and
lots of water and we'll see how it'll react to its new environment.
