--- title: Green Computing ---

# Green Computing

![a solarpunk building with solar panel on the roof in the jungle](green-computing.jpg)

## Links

Here is a collection of links with quotes about green computing:

### Green Software Foundation

https://greensoftware.foundation

Green software is software that is responsible for emitting fewer greenhouse
gases. Our focus is reduction, not neutralisation.

https://greensoftware.foundation/manifesto

The Foundation's mission is to reduce the total change in global carbon
emissions associated with software. When evaluating choices we choose the
option that advocates for abatement (reducing emissions) not neutralisation
(offsetting emissions).

https://learn.greensoftware.foundation/introduction

Green software is an emerging discipline at the intersection of climate
science, software design, electricity markets, hardware, and data center
design.

Green software is carbon-efficient software, meaning it emits the least carbon
possible. Only three activities reduce the carbon emissions of software: energy
efficiency, carbon awareness, and hardware efficiency.

How to be a green software practitioner:

- Carbon Efficiency: Emit the least amount of carbon possible.
- Energy Efficiency: Use the least amount of energy possible.
- Carbon Awareness: Do more when the electricity is cleaner and do less when
  the electricity is dirtier.
- Hardware Efficiency: Use the least amount of embodied carbon possible.
- Measurement: What you can't measure, you can't improve.
- Climate Commitments: Understand the exact mechanism of carbon reduction.

### Electricity Maps

https://www.electricitymaps.com

Electricity Maps provides actionable electricity data for more than 160
regions. We help businesses more effectively reduce their emissions, and enable
products and services to differentiate their offerings by empowering end-users
to be more carbon-aware.

### WattTime

https://www.watttime.org

WattTime is a nonprofit that offers technology solutions that make it easy for
anyone to achieve emissions reductions without compromising cost, comfort, and
function. 

https://www.watttime.org/solutions/automated-emissions-reduction-aer

WattTime is a nonprofit founded to make it easy for manufacturers and operators
of smart devices to go green this way without affecting their device
performance, user comfort, or even cost. We’ve packaged this into a set of
simple tools we call Automated Emissions Reduction, like real-time and forecast
emissions data through our API. 

### Cloud Carbon Footprint

https://www.cloudcarbonfootprint.org

Cloud Carbon Footprint is an open source tool that provides visibility and
tooling to measure, monitor and reduce your cloud carbon emissions. We use best
practice methodologies to convert cloud utilization into estimated energy usage
and carbon emissions, producing metrics and carbon savings estimates that can
be shared with employees, investors, and other stakeholders.

### CO2 Scope

https://www.easyvirt.com/en/co2scope-reduce-the-carbon-footprint-of-it-services

CO2 Scope is a solution to monitor in real-time the CO2 emissions of IT
services, virtual machines, and servers. Providing automatic KPI,
recommendations, and guidelines to reduce the environmental impact of IT, and
involving technical and management objectives.

### GreenFrame

https://greenframe.io

GreenFrame is an open-source solution that allows developers to decarbonize
their websites by detecting carbon leaks.

Analyse and find out how much Co2 your web application emits.

GreenFrame integrates into your CI pipeline to help you understand the impact
of your changes and improve your development practices.

GreenFrame lets you write custom scenarios reflecting what people actually do
on your website or application. Not just for idle pages!

### Google Cloud

https://blog.google/outreach-initiatives/sustainability/carbon-aware-computing-location

Google can now shift moveable compute tasks between different data centers,
based on regional hourly carbon-free energy availability. 

Shifting compute tasks across location is a logical progression of our first
step in carbon-aware computing, which was to shift compute across time. By
enabling our data centers to shift flexible tasks to different times of the
day, we were able to use more electricity when carbon-free energy sources like
solar and wind are plentiful. Now, with our newest update, we’re also able to
shift more electricity use to where carbon-free energy is available.

https://blog.google/inside-google/infrastructure/data-centers-work-harder-sun-shines-wind-blows

Our latest advancement in sustainability, developed by a small team of
engineers, is a new carbon-intelligent computing platform. We designed and
deployed this first-of-its kind system for our hyperscale (meaning very large)
data centers to shift the timing of many compute tasks to when low-carbon power
sources, like wind and solar, are most plentiful.

### Microsoft Windows

https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-update-is-now-carbon-aware-a53f39bc-5531-4bb1-9e78-db38d7a6df20

Starting with Windows 11, version 22H2, Windows Update is now carbon aware,
making it easier for your devices to reduce carbon emissions. When devices are
plugged in, turned on, connected to the internet and regional carbon intensity
data is available, Windows Update will schedule installations at specific times
of the day (when doing so may result in lower-carbon emissions because a higher
proportion of electricity is coming from lower-carbon sources on the electric
grid).

### Microsoft Xbox

https://news.xbox.com/en-us/2023/01/11/xbox-carbon-aware-console-sustainability

Xbox is now the first gaming console to offer carbon aware game downloads and
updates.

When your console is plugged in, connected to the Internet and regional carbon
intensity data is available, Xbox will schedule game, app, and OS updates for
your console at specific times during the nightly maintenance window that may
result in lower carbon emissions because a higher proportion of electricity is
coming from lower-carbon sources on the electric grid.

### Apple iPhone

https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213323

With iOS 16.1, your iPhone can try to reduce your carbon footprint by
selectively charging when lower carbon-emission electricity is available.

### Dropbox

https://dropbox.tech/infrastructure/making-dropbox-data-centers-carbon-neutral

Maximizing power utilization: Across the industry, data centers are designed to
power a specific power range. Any capacity that isn't used is wasted--at a cost
both in dollars and environmental impact. At Dropbox, we aim to reach 85%
capacity, a sweet spot for usage that's efficient yet still gives us extra
capacity to handle power spikes.

### Hardware Sentry

https://www.sentrysoftware.com/products/hardware-sentry.html

Hardware Sentry is a vendor-agnostic solution to monitor the health of physical
and virtual disks, controllers, blade servers, SAN switches, tape libraries,
network adapters, temperature sensors, etc. in your datacenter.  The solution
also reports on power consumption, electricity costs and CO2 emissions.

https://greensoftware.foundation/articles/how-sentry-software-reduced-its-data-center-s-electricity-usage-by-15

Increasing the data center temperature from 18°C to 27°C resulted in a decrease
of 15% in energy required for air conditioning and 7% in carbon emissions. 
