---
title: 2024
---

# Bonsai Journal 2024

## 2024-01-11

There was a tiny amount of snow on the trees this morning.

## 2024-02-25

The Chinese quinces and the Acer palmatum katsura are leafing out already.

## 2024-03-13

The blackthorns are flowering.

## 2024-04-13

I reassembled the bonsai tables and moved the trees that were on the ground
over the winter onto them. I also moved the wintering (olive, privet, chojubai)
trees out of the greenhouse.

## 2024-04-18

I received 111 seeds of Pinus thunbergii (2g) from Semences du Puy and I put
them in a glass of water.

## 2024-04-20

Most of the seeds (108) fell to the bottom of the glass so I discarded those
that were still floating and put the rest in a bag with a bit of wet moss that
I moved to the fridge.

## 2024-04-21

It was freezing this morning (-0.9 C) and this destroyed the leaves of the
wisteria growing in the ground.

## 2024-04-24

I repotted 60 black pine seedlings from 2022 that were growing in the same pond
basket into individual containers with a 2:1 mix of pumice and lava. I should
have done it last month, or last year, but I didn't have the time for it then.
I have 4 or 5 more pond baskets but it was too late for them because they are
growing more vigorously. I'll see how much of the seedlings will survive
because they don't look very healthy. Next time I'll repot much sooner.

I also transpotted my two chojubai into the next size of pond basket. The oldest
one was in the smallest pond basket size and the more recent one was still in
its original container. I left the former in the first pond basket stacked on
top of the bigger one, and removed the container of the latter without
disturbing the roots.

This second chojubai was quite yellow. I'll see if this improve the issue or
try to give it some iron. I will also try the iron on my oldest olive that also
have new leaves since last September of the same color.

## 2024-04-25

I stacked one of the itoigawa on a bigger pond basket and will try that on a
few other to see if they will grow faster than the rest.

I received 4 big unglazed pots from Bonsaischule Wenddorf that had a really
good packaging to prevent them from breaking. I'll repot my big hanazono satsuki 
on one of them after bloom.

## 2024-04-27

I ordered some PH test strips to measure my tap water because it could be
too alkaline. I also looked at what kind of pump I could buy to put on top of
the rain tank in the bonsai area and reconnected it to the gutter at the corner
of the house.

## 2024-04-28

I watered the chojubai, olive, and Japanese black pine trees that had yellow
leaves with a few grammes of 6% of chelated iron (by filling the scoop to the
first level numbered 5) and diluted it in 3 liters of water. The solution was a
dark rust in color so when I was done I washed the watering can with 3 more
liters of water and cleaned up the leaves of the dark rust solution to avoid
leaving any marks.

## 2024-04-29

I reconnected a 1000 liters water tank to the house gutter to catch rainwater
and got 200 liters after 10 mm of rain.

## 2024-04-30

I received 10 Japanese black pine seedlings that I transpotted into a pond
basket without disturbing their root mass. I then wire them to put a bit of
movement into them. I should have ordered them much earlier but it's better
to do another small experiment rather than waiting another year.

I also removed the Japanese black pine seeds from the fridge and planted them
in a dozen pond baskets with a lava and pomice mix.

## 2024-05-01

I took 5 cuttings of itoigawa shoots and planted them on a pond basket with a
lava and pomice mix.

I also collect nettle and started a nettle tea in a 10 liters bucket with
rainwater.

## 2024-05-02

There's some subtle signs at the surface of all buckets containing the Japanese
black pine seeds indicating that an animal may have eaten most of them. Next
time I need to protect them with a wire mesh.

I cleaned up the ficus trees that are indoor below a powerful grow light and
above a tray of water positioned on a heated matt. They are doing well with
some aerial root formation but less than when they were inside a tent with high
humidity.

The 8 ficus trees from my 2021 experiment are getting really fused now after
a couple of years of free growing. I might start chopping some of the trees to
prevent the branches they will be from growing too much compared to the main
trunk. I'm also thinking about making a cutting of the biggest chop and later
planting it on top of the current trunk.

It'll also soon be time to remove more branches from my 2004 ficus around where
I chopped it in 2022 to avoid inverse taper. It is growing well and will need
to be repotted this summer.
