---
title: Values
---

# Values

1. [Inquisitiveness](#1)
2. [Self-Reliance](#2)
3. [Simplicity](#3)
4. [Integrity](#4)

<a name="1"></a>
**Inquisitiveness:** This value implies a strong desire to learn and understand
more about the world around us. It encourages curiosity, questioning, and
exploration, which can lead to greater knowledge, creativity, problem-solving
skills, and personal growth. Living a life of inquisitiveness can lead to a
fulfilling and exciting life, as one never stops learning and discovering new
things.

<a name="2"></a>
**Self-Reliance:** This value refers to the ability to depend on oneself for
one's needs and to make decisions independently. It promotes confidence,
resilience, independence, and the ability to handle adversity. If one is
self-reliant, they are less likely to be overly dependent on others, they can
take control of their life and make their own choices, leading to a life of
self-satisfaction and self-accomplishment.

<a name="3"></a>
**Simplicity:** This value advocates for a simpler and less complicated life.
It encourages us to focus on what's truly important and necessary, rather than
being caught up in materialism and excess.  Simplicity can lead to a life of
contentment, peace, and appreciation for the simple things, which can be more
satisfying and rewarding than a life filled with complexity and unnecessary
possessions.

<a name="4"></a>
**Integrity:** This value refers to the quality of being honest and having
strong moral principles. It involves being true to oneself, upholding ethical
standards, and behaving consistently with our beliefs. Living a life of
integrity can lead to a good life as it fosters trust, respect, and positive
relationships with others. It also promotes self-respect and peace of mind in
knowing that we're doing what's right.
