---
title: About
---

# About

I came to this world `449,947,500` seconds after Unix Epoch at `48.4998763`
degrees of latitude and `-2.7518657` of longitude. I spent my childhood between
the sea and the forest, and I remain, more than a gigasecond later, most at
peace when I am surrounded by nature.


## Education

But I also discovered another world made of silicon and binary numbers, and it
immediately clicked for me as I was typing my first commands in the console of
a computer.

I made my first personal website for fun in the year 1996 of the Gregorian
calendar at the age of 12 years old, and the first one for profit 2 years
later.

Since then the internet got bigger and a lot more complex, but I'm still
pushing code to web servers. I gained in the process a master degree in
computer science with a specialization in network engineering, and a love for
efficient and elegant code.


## Work

Closer to the present: in February 2015, after 4 years in Paris working for the
online magazine [Slate.fr][0], I decided that only spending my weekends and my
vacations in the forests and mountains of Europe wasn't enough, so I moved
almost full time into the wild.

For the past two years or so, I've been living in remote places of Aotearoa,
Samoa and Australia, working from time to time when I have enough network
connectivity and a charged battery. So far I'm really enjoying this lifestyle
and the hope it give me when I meet remarkable people living out of the grid in
sustainable communities.

I'll probably keep exploring the last wild areas of our planet for a while and
settle down somewhere in Europe after that, but I'm available for freelance
remote work as a full stack web developer. If you have an interesting and
meaningful project in JavaScript, Ruby or Rust, I'd love to hear about it.


## See Also

[home](/), [projects](/projects/), [contact](/contact.html)


[0]: https://slate.fr
